<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Book 0: Introduction</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="book-0" epub:type="chapter">
			<header>
				<hgroup>
					<h2>
						<span epub:type="se:label">Book</span>
						<span epub:type="z3998:ordinal">0</span>
					</h2>
					<p epub:type="title">Introduction</p>
				</hgroup>
			</header>
			<p>This is an Eleven Productions original.</p>
			<p>Long before the world had maps, the greatest warriors of Greece sailed across the sea to a city called Troy. For ten years they laid siege to its walls. When the city finally fell, the heroes turned their ships toward home.</p>
			<p>But the gods of Olympus had their favorites and their grudges. And for many of these men, the journey home became its own kind of war.</p>
			<p>This is the story of one of those soldiers.</p>
			<p>His name is Odysseus, king of the small rocky island called Ithaca, and he is the cleverest man alive. When our story begins, he has been gone from home for nearly twenty years.</p>
			<p>His wife, Penelope, waits in their palace, surrounded by suitors who demand she choose a new husband.</p>
			<p>His son, Telemachus, born just before the war, has grown into a young man who has never met his father.</p>
			<p>And Odysseus himself is held captive on a distant island, longing only to see his home again.</p>
			<p>With that, we present the greatest adventure story ever told⁠—Homer’s <i epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">The Odyssey</i>.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
