<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Endnotes</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="backmatter">
		<section id="endnotes" epub:type="endnotes">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Endnotes</h2>
			<p>These notes record the only differences in proper names between this edition and Bryant’s translation, and the Latinate names this edition deliberately keeps. Each note appears at the name’s first occurrence in the poem. Changed names are spoken in their Greek form by the Michael Caine / ElevenLabs narration; kept names are spoken by it in Bryant’s Latin form.</p>
			<ol>
				<li id="note-1">
					<p>The Introduction is not part of Homer’s poem. It is a short framing prologue, original to the Eleven Productions audiobook, transcribed here from the opening of the Michael Caine / ElevenLabs narration so that this edition matches what the listener hears. Like the rest of this edition, it uses the Greek names. <a href="introduction.xhtml#noteref-1" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-2">
					<p>Bryant’s “argument” for this book says Athena appeared to Telemachus “in the shape of Mentor,” but in the text of Book 1 itself she takes the form of Mentes, a Taphian family friend; Mentor, Telemachus’s own tutor, is a distinct character whom Athena impersonates later, in Books 2, 22, and 24. This edition corrects the argument to “Mentes” to match Bryant’s own text; this is an editorial correction of an apparent slip in Bryant’s translation, not a Greek/Roman name substitution. <a href="book-1.xhtml#noteref-2" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-3">
					<p>The italicized synopsis at the head of each book is Bryant’s editorial “argument,” summarizing the action to come. It is not part of Homer’s poem and is not read aloud in the Michael Caine / ElevenLabs narration; it is retained here for context and authenticity. This note marks the first such argument only; the same applies to every book. <a href="book-1.xhtml#noteref-3" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-4">
					<p>Bryant’s translation has “Jove” here, and “Jupiter” elsewhere, for this god. This edition renders both as “Zeus” to match the Michael Caine / ElevenLabs narration. <a href="book-1.xhtml#noteref-4" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-5">
					<p>Bryant’s translation has “Neptune.” Changed to “Poseidon” to match the Michael Caine / ElevenLabs narration. <a href="book-1.xhtml#noteref-5" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-6">
					<p>Bryant’s translation has “Ulysses.” Changed to “Odysseus” throughout to match the Michael Caine / ElevenLabs narration. <a href="book-1.xhtml#noteref-6" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-7">
					<p>Bryant’s translation has “Mercury.” Changed to “Hermes” to match the Michael Caine / ElevenLabs narration. <a href="book-1.xhtml#noteref-7" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-8">
					<p>Bryant’s translation has “Pallas” (sometimes “Pallas Athenè”). Changed to “Athena” to match the Michael Caine / ElevenLabs narration. Bryant’s other name for the same goddess, “Minerva,” is left unchanged. <a href="book-1.xhtml#noteref-8" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-9">
					<p>Bryant’s translation has “Saturn.” Changed to “Cronos” to match the Michael Caine / ElevenLabs narration. <a href="book-1.xhtml#noteref-9" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-10">
					<p>Venus is the Roman name for the Greek Aphrodite. Left unchanged: the Michael Caine / ElevenLabs narration (as of June 28, 2026) keeps Bryant’s Latin form. <a href="book-4.xhtml#noteref-10" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-11">
					<p>“Dian” is Bryant’s contracted form of Diana, the Roman name for the Greek Artemis. Left unchanged, in both forms: the Michael Caine / ElevenLabs narration (as of June 28, 2026) keeps Bryant’s Latin name. <a href="book-4.xhtml#noteref-11" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-12">
					<p>Aurora is the Roman name for the Greek Eos, goddess of the dawn. Left unchanged: the Michael Caine / ElevenLabs narration (as of June 28, 2026) keeps Bryant’s Latin form. <a href="book-4.xhtml#noteref-12" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-13">
					<p>Bryant’s translation has “Juno.” Changed to “Hera” to match the Michael Caine / ElevenLabs narration. <a href="book-4.xhtml#noteref-13" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-14">
					<p>Vulcan is the Roman name for the Greek Hephaestus. Left unchanged: the Michael Caine / ElevenLabs narration (as of June 28, 2026) keeps Bryant’s Latin form. <a href="book-4.xhtml#noteref-14" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-15">
					<p>Ceres is the Roman name for the Greek Demeter. Left unchanged: the Michael Caine / ElevenLabs narration (as of June 28, 2026) keeps Bryant’s Latin form. <a href="book-5.xhtml#noteref-15" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-16">
					<p>Minerva is, like “Pallas,” one of Bryant’s names for the goddess whose Greek name is Athena. Though “Pallas” is changed to “Athena” in this edition, “Minerva” is left unchanged, because the Michael Caine / ElevenLabs narration (as of June 28, 2026) keeps it—so both names appear in this text, exactly as in the audio. <a href="book-5.xhtml#noteref-16" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-17">
					<p>Latona is the Roman name for the Greek Leto. Left unchanged: the Michael Caine / ElevenLabs narration (as of June 28, 2026) keeps Bryant’s Latin form. <a href="book-6.xhtml#noteref-17" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-18">
					<p>Phoebus is an epithet of Apollo, not a separate god; Apollo’s name is the same in Greek and Latin and is never changed. “Phoebus” is likewise left unchanged: the Michael Caine / ElevenLabs narration (as of June 28, 2026) keeps it. <a href="book-8.xhtml#noteref-18" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-19">
					<p>Mars is the Roman name for the Greek Ares. Left unchanged: the Michael Caine / ElevenLabs narration (as of June 28, 2026) keeps Bryant’s Latin form. <a href="book-8.xhtml#noteref-19" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-20">
					<p>Pluto is the Roman name for the Greek Hades. Left unchanged: the Michael Caine / ElevenLabs narration (as of June 28, 2026) keeps Bryant’s Latin form. <a href="book-10.xhtml#noteref-20" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-21">
					<p>Proserpine is the Roman name for the Greek Persephone. Left unchanged: the Michael Caine / ElevenLabs narration (as of June 28, 2026) keeps Bryant’s Latin form. <a href="book-10.xhtml#noteref-21" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-22">
					<p>Bacchus is the Roman name for the Greek Dionysus. Left unchanged: the Michael Caine / ElevenLabs narration (as of June 28, 2026) keeps Bryant’s Latin form. <a href="book-11.xhtml#noteref-22" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
