<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Imprint</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/se.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="frontmatter">
		<section id="imprint" epub:type="imprint">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Imprint</h2>
			<p>This is an unofficial, fan-made edition of William Cullen Bryant’s 1871 translation of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">Odyssey</i>, prepared as a reading companion to the audiobook narrated in the artificial voice of Sir Michael Caine (ElevenLabs, 2026). Throughout the text, the names of the gods and heroes have been restored to their Greek forms so that the printed page matches the names spoken in that narration. It is a derivative work built upon the <a href="https://standardebooks.org/ebooks/homer/the-odyssey/william-cullen-bryant">Standard Ebooks edition</a> of Bryant’s translation; it is not an official Standard Ebooks release and carries no endorsement from Standard Ebooks, which is not responsible for the name changes or any other alteration made in this edition.</p>
			<p>That edition is the product of many hours of hard work by volunteers for <a href="https://standardebooks.org/">Standard Ebooks</a>, and builds on the hard work of other literature lovers made possible by the public domain.</p>
			<p>It is based on digital scans from <a href="https://standardebooks.org/ebooks/homer/the-odyssey/william-cullen-bryant#page-scans">various sources</a>.</p>
			<p>The source text in this ebook is believed to be in the United States public domain; that is, it is believed to be free of copyright restrictions in the United States. It may still be copyrighted in other countries, so users located outside of the United States must check their local laws before using this ebook. The creators of, and contributors to, this ebook dedicate their contributions to the worldwide public domain via the terms in the <a href="https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/">CC0 1.0 Universal Public Domain Dedication</a>; the one exception is the cover image, which is not in the public domain and whose rights are reserved by its creator. For full license information, see the <a href="uncopyright.xhtml">Uncopyright</a> at the end of this ebook.</p>
			<p>Standard Ebooks is a volunteer-driven project that produces ebook editions of public domain literature using modern typography, technology, and editorial standards, and distributes them free of cost. You can download the original edition of this book, and many others carefully produced for true book lovers, at <a href="https://standardebooks.org/">standardebooks.org</a>.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
