<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>About This Edition</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="frontmatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="note" epub:type="preface">
			<h2 epub:type="title">About This Edition</h2>
			<p>When ElevenLabs released their audiobook of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">Odyssey</i>, narrated using an AI clone of Sir Michael Caine’s voice, I couldn’t stop listening to it. We are living through a strange and fascinating moment in history: for the first time, we can hear words that were never actually spoken by the person whose voice is delivering them. A voice can now outlast its owner, and be lent to texts the owner never read. Whether that is wonderful or unsettling⁠—or both at once⁠—I find it fascinating to think about, and it's brought about really interesting projects. The ElevenLabs production adds to this: it surrounds Caine’s narration with soundscapes, music, and atmospheric effects that shift with the story, so that listening feels less like an audiobook and more like sitting by a fire while someone tells you the oldest adventure story in the Western world. I wanted a text to follow along with while I listened. I couldn’t find one that matched the names I was hearing in my ears, so I made one.</p>
			<p>This edition presents William Cullen Bryant’s 1871 blank-verse translation of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">Odyssey</i> with one systematic change: the names of the gods and heroes have been restored to their Greek forms. Where Bryant followed the convention of his day and used the Roman equivalents⁠—Ulysses, Neptune, Minerva, Jove⁠—this edition reads Odysseus, Poseidon, Athena, Zeus, and so on throughout all twenty-four books.</p>
			<p>The purpose is to provide a faithful reading companion to the audiobook narrated by Sir Michael Caine’s voice (ElevenLabs, 2026). A listener following along in Bryant’s original text would otherwise find the names on the page constantly at odds with the names in their ears.</p>
			<p>Arriving at the right substitution list was not straightforward. ElevenLabs did not Hellenize all of Bryant’s Roman names⁠—only some of them. Odysseus, Zeus, Poseidon, Athena, and a few others are spoken in their Greek forms; but Minerva, Venus, Mars, Aurora, and many more remain exactly as Bryant wrote them. A na&#239;ve approach of replacing every Latin name would have produced a text that diverged from the narration just as often as Bryant’s original. To establish the true list I listened through the audiobook and verified each name against the text by ear, book by book. The endnotes at the back of this edition record every name that was changed and every name that was deliberately kept, with the reason for each.</p>
			<p>Only the proper names of gods and mortals have been altered; Bryant’s wording, lineation, and punctuation are otherwise left as they are in the Standard Ebooks publication. Because the Greek and Roman names are rarely identical in length, a number of lines now scan differently from Bryant’s originals, and readers attentive to his meter will notice the occasional altered foot.</p>
			<p>Bryant set out his own reasons for preferring the Roman names in his original preface, which argued from the long tradition of English poetry. Because that argument runs counter to the choice made here, his preface has been moved to the back of this edition, where it is preserved in full as a document of its time.</p>
			<p>I hope you will enjoy reading this book.</p>
			<p>This edition is derived from the Standard Ebooks edition of Bryant’s translation, which was itself produced from public-domain page scans. Like its sources, this book is dedicated to the public domain, with the exception of the cover image, the rights to which are held by its creator and rightsholder.</p>
			<footer>
				<p epub:type="z3998:signature">Stoil <abbr>M.</abbr> Stoilov</p>
				<p>July, 2026.</p>
			</footer>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
